Move and extend sharding and partitioning guide (#324)
crate/crate-howtos: docs/best-practices/configuring-sharding-partitioning.rst

> .. _configuring-sharding-partitioning:
> 
> =====================================
> Configuring sharding and partitioning
> =====================================

Reviewer: Just a suggestion for a different page title, with one less "-ing" suffix.

```suggestion
.. _sharding-partitioning:

===============================
About Sharding and Partitioning
===============================
```

.. rubric:: Table of contents

.. contents::
   :local:

Introduction
============

> Sharding and partitioning are techniques used to distribute data evenly across multiple nodes in a cluster, ensuring data scalability, availability, and performance. 
> This page provides an in-depth guide on how to configure sharding and partitioning in CrateDB, presenting best practices and examples.

Reviewer: Just trimming line-length here.
```suggestion
Sharding and partitioning are techniques used to distribute data evenly across
multiple nodes in a cluster, ensuring data scalability, availability, and performance.
This page provides an in-depth guide on how to configure sharding and partitioning in
CrateDB, presenting best practices and examples.
```

.. code-block:: psql

    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "doc"."first_table" (
        "ts" TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE,
        "val" DOUBLE PRECISION
    )
    CLUSTERED INTO 4 SHARDS

By default, ingested data is distributed evenly across all available shards. 
Although you can influence that distribution by specifying a routing column, in 
many cases it is best to keep the default settings to avoid any unbalanced distribution.

.. danger::

    **Over-sharding and over-partitioning**

    Sharding can drastically improve the performance on large datasets. 
    However, having too many small shards will most likely degrade performance. 
    Over-sharding and over-partitioning are common flaws leading to an overall 
    poor performance.

    **As a rule of thumb, a single shard should hold somewhere between 5 - 100 
    GB of data.**

    To avoid oversharding, CrateDB by default limits the number of shards per 
    node to 1000. Any operation that would exceed that limit, leads to an 
    exception.

Partitioning
============

CrateDB also supports splitting up data across another dimension with 
:ref:`partitioning <crate-reference:partitioned-tables>`. You can think of a

> partition as a set of shards. For each partition the number of shards defined 

Reviewer: Just a suggestion for adding punctuation.

```suggestion
partition as a set of shards. For each partition, the number of shards defined 
```

> by ``CLUSTERED INTO x SHARDS`` are created, when a first row with a specific 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by ``CLUSTERED INTO x SHARDS`` are created, when a first record with a specific 
```

``partition key`` is inserted.

In the following example - which represents a very simple time-series use-case 
- we added another column ``part`` that automatically generates the current 
month upon insertion from the ``ts`` column. The ``part`` column is further used 
as the ``partition key``.

.. code-block:: psql

    CREATE TABLE second_table (
        ts TIMESTAMP,
        val DOUBLE PRECISION,
        part GENERATED ALWAYS AS date_trunc('month',ts)
    ) PARTITIONED BY(part);

When inserting a first row with the following statement:

.. code-block:: psql

    INSERT INTO second_table (ts,val) VALUES (1617823229974, 1.23);

and then querying for the total amount of shards for the table:

.. code-block:: psql

    SELECT COUNT(*) FROM sys.shards
    WHERE table_name = 'second_table';

We can see that the table is split into 4 shards.

> Adding another row to the table with a different partition key (i.e. different 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding another record to the table with a different partition key (i.e. different 
```

month):

.. code-block:: psql

    INSERT INTO second_table (ts,val) VALUES (1620415701974, 2.31);

We can see that there are now 8 shards for the table ``second_table`` in the 
cluster.

How to choose your sharding and partitioning strategy
=====================================================
An optimal sharding and partitioning strategy always depends on the specific 
use case and should typically be determined by conducting 
benchmarks across various strategies. The following steps provide a general guide for a benchmark.

- Identify the ingestion rate
- Identify the record size
- Calculate the Throughput

> Then, to calculate the number of shards, you should consider that each shard size should be between 5 - 100 GB and each node can only hold up to 1000 shards.

Reviewer: Line wrapping and a bit of wording.
```suggestion
Then, to calculate the number of shards, you should consider that the size of each
shard should roughly be between 5 - 100 GB, and that each node can only manage
up to 1000 shards.
```

Time-series example
-------------------

> To illustrate the steps above, use it in an example. For instance, imagine you want to create a *partitioned table* on a *three-node cluster* 
> to store time-series data with the following assumptions:

Reviewer: Line wrapping and wording.
```suggestion
To illustrate the steps above, let's use them on behalf of an example. Imagine
you want to create a *partitioned table* on a *three-node cluster* to store
time-series data with the following assumptions:
```

- Inserts: 1.000 records / s
- Record size: 128 byte / record
- Throughput: 125 KB / s or 10.3 GB / day

Given the daily throughput is around 10 GB/day, the monthly throughput is 30 times that (~ 300 GB). The partition column can be day, week, month, quarter, etc. So, assuming a 
monthly partition, the next step is to calculate the number of shards with the **shard size restriction** 
(5 - 100 GB) and the **number of nodes** in the cluster in mind.

> With three shards, each shard will hold 100 GB (300 GB / 3), which is too
> close to the upper limit. With six shards, each shard will have 50 GB (300 GB / 6) which is closer to the middle of the recommended size range (5 - 100 GB).

Reviewer: Line wrapping and wording.
```suggestion
With three shards, each shard will hold 100 GB (300 GB / 3), which is too
close to the upper limit. With six shards, each shard will manage 50 GB
(300 GB / 6) of data, which is closer to the recommended size range (5 - 100 GB).
```
